- [Instructor] Hi an welcome back.
In this video we're going to look
at static and class methods.
This is a reasonably advanced
topic, so if you have
any questions at any
point just let me know.
Let's say we wanted to extend our student
so we could go to school for example.
In here we would say something like print
I'm going to .format self.school.
I'm going to school and
in this case it'll be MIT.
So we can do that, we can say something
like anna.go_to_school
and when we run this code
we should get I'm going to MIT and we do.
If we wanted to make
this a bit more generic,
we may say something
like I'm going to school
if we for example, didn't really care,
about which school we were going to.
Just I'm going to school and I'm busy
or something like that.
If we do this, and this is just to explain
this concept of static
and class methods really.
If we wanted to do this,
would you agree that
we are not using self inside the method.
Self is being passed as a parameter
but we are not using self.
And then, would you agree
that it doesn't matter
which object if it's Anna or
if it's another student object.
It doesn't matter which student object
is calling this method
because in all cases,
no matter who is calling
it, it is always going
to do the same thing
because it doesn't use self
and therefore even if
this school is different
for this particular object
it's always gonna print,
I'm going to school.
I'll do something like this.
Just to make it a bit clearer.
If Anna calls go_to_school
it'll print I'm going to school
and if Rolf calls go_to_school it'll print
I'm going to school.
It is independent of
the objects properties.
We are not using self at all.
We're not saying I'm going to Oxford
or I'm going to MIT all we're saying
is I'm going to school,
therefore it doesn't matter
who calls it, if Anna or
Rolf, in both cases it's
going to print out the same,
it's going to execute the same code.
So if you agree with that
then there is a change
that we can do, where
we can remove the self.
We can't do that that
lightly though sadly.
If we run this code now we get an error
because we say anna.go_to_school
and then it says type error.
go_to_school takes zero
positional arguments
but one was given, we
gave it one argument.
It's saying that we gave
go_to_school an argument
but where is that argument?
We haven't really given it
anything inside of the brackets.
And you'd be correct, however,
whenever we say object.method
self always gets passed in
as the object, so essentially
this is the same thing
as doing go_to_school
with an object as a first parameter.
That's why we need the self
and we cannot remove the self.
However, we can tell Python
that we don't need the self,
and if we do that then we don't
have to pass it in anymore.
The way we do that is by in
front of the method doing this.
Now, instead of self we need cls.
So what is cls you say.
When we run this
anna.go_to_school what we pass
in as the first parameter
is Anna, the object.
Then we can do things like
self.school for example.
When we call something a class method,
by putting ampersand
sign class method front,
what we pass is not the
object but the class student.
So, inside the body we can
see that cls is student.
Let's run this.
What we get is I'm going to
school, that's what we expect
and then I'm a
the main is just because
the file that we run
is always called main, so we're inside
the main file essentially
and the class is student.
So this essentially says I'm a student.
So the class is what we've passed in.
We've passed in student, we've
passed in this thing here.
In some cases, that is useful,
in other cases, it is not useful.
And if it isn't useful,
instead of class method,
you can do static method and then
you don't pass anything in.
Then this is fine, I'm just
going to school like that.
More than that you no longer
have to do anna.go_to_school,
or rolf.go_to_school now you
can do Student.go_to_school.
It no longer matters who is calling it
because we're running the
same code if Anna calls it
or if Rolf Calls it, so we might as well
call it with the class itself.
Notice that if you make
this a class method
and this at cls you can do the same thing.
You can still call that
Student.go_to_school.
The only moment where you need to call it
as an object is if it doesn't have
a decorator and here you
have self, then you need
to call it anna.go_to_school.
But if you make this a static method,
then you don't need anything here
and you can call it like so.
So this was a quick introduction
to what class method
and static method are and they are
just differences in what
we pass the methods.
So in this case the go_to_school method
we didn't need self so
we can make it static
and that means all objects, Anna and Rolf
and any other object,
all the objects share
the same method essentially.
So no matter who calls
it, it always prints
the same thing out.
So that's it for this video.
In the next one, we're
gonna look at inheritance
in object oriented programming which
is extremely important in
large and complex systems.
I'll see you there.